Add article about erasing data securely (#1256)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: docs/basics/erasing-data.md

!!! warning

    None of these methods are guaranteed to make your data completely unrecoverable. The best (and most fun) method is to grab a hammer or your favorite implement of destruction and smash it into pieces. Of course, make sure to be careful not injure yourself or anyone else.

For wiping all your drives, we recommend you use ShredOS. Install [Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) and make sure you have a usb flash drive (it will be wiped, so make sure there aren't any important files on it). Download a [ShredOS](https://github.com/PartialVolume/shredos.x86_64#download-img-and-iso-files-for-burning-to-usb-flash-drives-and-cd-rdvd-r) .iso file and run Balena Etcher with your USB drive plugged in. Once you're done flashing the USB drive, restart your computer and enter your UEFI settings by pressing a key specified in your motherboard's manual, usually ++f2++, ++f12++, or ++del++. There should be a "Boot Override" option somewhere. Select your USB device from the menu and it will boot into ShredOS. Follow the onscreen prompts to wipe your data.

> ![Example of UEFI Settings](../assets/img/erasing-data/uefi.png)

Reviewer: I'm not convinced this is the most helpful screenshot for people here. A screenshot of the ShredOS interface after booting to it might make more sense, as well as additional pointers as to what onscreen prompts people should click (unless it really is dead obvious, I haven't looked)

Author: Yeah agree

Author: I think it's fairly obvious what to do once you boot into it though.

---
title: "Erasing Data"
icon: 'material/harddisk-remove'
---
**Erasing data** from your computer may seem like a simple task, but if you want to make sure it is unrecoverable, there are some things you should to consider.

##Erasing Your Entire Drive

!!! note 

    If your drive is encrypted, you do not need to worry about leaving traces of files on your computer, as your files are already impossible to access without the encryption key. If your drive is not encrypted, you should choose one of these [full disk encryption](/encryption/#os-full-disk-encryption) options.

> For an unencrypted drive, pressing ++del++ on a file isn't enough; this will tell the drive to allow this space to be overwritten, but the data will still be there. You don't know when the data will be overwritten, or even if it will at all. To ensure your files cannot be recovered, you will need to follow these steps:

Reviewer 2: Using a more proper term. Not too advanced for naïve users, I hope.
```suggestion
For an unencrypted drive, pressing ++del++ on a file isn't enough; this will tell the filesystem to allow this space to be overwritten, but the data will still be recoverable. You don't know when the data will be overwritten, or even if it will at all. To ensure your files cannot be recovered, you will need to follow these steps:
```

!!! Warning

>     The data on your drive will not be recoverable. You should make sure you have any files you need backed up before performing this action!

Reviewer 2: I think this is fairly obvious and this warning is not needed.

---
title: "Erasing Data"
icon: 'material/delete-forever'
---
**Erasing data** from your computer may seem like a simple task, but if you want to make sure it is unrecoverable, there are some things you need to consider.

> ##:material-harddisk-remove:Erasing Your Entire Drive

Reviewer 3: Not sure if I'm a fan of the icons in the headers. Looks a little funky imo and isn't consistent with the rest of the site

Reviewer 4: Yeah looks a bit out of place

!!! note 

    If your drive is encrypted, you do not need to worry about leaving traces of files on your computer, as your files are already impossible to access without the encryption key. If your drive is not encrypted, you should choose one of these [full disk encryption](/encryption/#os-full-disk-encryption) options.

> For an unencrypted drive, pressing ++del++ on a file isn't enough; this will tell the drive to allow this space to be overwritten, but the data will still be there. You don't know when the data will be overwritten, or even if it will at all. To ensure your files cannot be recovered, you will need to follow these steps:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For an unencrypted drive, simply emptying your recycle bin isn't enough—this will allow the drive to overwrite the data, but until it does the data will still be there. You don't know when the data will be overwritten, or even if it will at all. To ensure your files cannot be recovered, you will need to follow these steps:
```

!!! Warning

    The data on your drive will not be recoverable. You should make sure you have any files you need backed up before performing this action!

!!! note

    None of these methods are guaranteed to make your data completely unrecoverable. The best (and most fun) method is to grab a hammer or your favorite implement of destruction and smash it into pieces. Of course, make sure to be careful not injure yourself or anyone else.

###:material-harddisk:HDD

> For an **HDD**, we recommend you use `nwipe`. Install [Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) and make sure you have a usb flash drive (it will be wiped so make sure there aren't any important files on it). Download a [ShredOS](https://github.com/PartialVolume/shredos.x86_64#download-img-and-iso-files-for-burning-to-usb-flash-drives-and-cd-rdvd-r) .iso file and run Balena Etcher with your USB drive plugged in. Once you're done flashing the USB drive, restart your computer and enter your UEFI settings by pressing a key specified in your motherboard's manual, usually ++f2++, ++f12++, or ++del++. There should be a "Boot Override" option somewhere. Select your USB device from the menu and it will boot into ShredOS. Follow the onscreen prompts to wipe your data.

Reviewer 3: You should provide some more information on what nwipe is. Starter example:

> nwipe is a program that will securely erase the entire contents of disks. It can wipe a single drive or multiple disks simultaneously and can operate as both a command line tool or with a basic GUI.

and nice use of the ++ it looks good.

It might also be better to split up the instructions instead of having it all in a blob of a paragraph.

###:material-harddisk:HDD

For an **HDD**, we recommend you use `nwipe`. Install [Balena Etcher](https://www.balena.io/etcher/) and make sure you have a usb flash drive (it will be wiped so make sure there aren't any important files on it). Download a [ShredOS](https://github.com/PartialVolume/shredos.x86_64#download-img-and-iso-files-for-burning-to-usb-flash-drives-and-cd-rdvd-r) .iso file and run Balena Etcher with your USB drive plugged in. Once you're done flashing the USB drive, restart your computer and enter your UEFI settings. There should be a "Boot Override" option somewhere. Select your USB device from the menu and it will boot into ShredOS. Follow the onscreen prompts to wipe your data.

> 

Reviewer 5: I think that, Using FDE and Wiping it normally would do that thing. If you also state, How to clear the Keys from Device's Memory.

Author: Can you elaborate? Not sure what you mean.
